In this video, we're going to see how to show that transformation between vector spaces is not a linear transformation.
So here I've written down a transformation team from the vector space of polynomial to the
vector space of polynomials given by T of a polynomial is X times that polynomial squared.
So we're going to show something is not a linear transformation. There's basically three things we could do.
We could show that it does not send the zero vector to the zero vector.
We could show that it does not respect addition and we can show that it does not respect scalar multiplication.
Any one of those three things will work. In this case, if I try and plug in the zero polynomial.
We're gonna get X times the zero polynomial squared, which is still zero.
So that sends the zero polynomial to the zero polynomial. So that one's not very helpful.
And this one, I will check scalar multiplication.
So if this was gonna be linear, we would want to see that if we multiply a polynomial by a scalar and then apply our map T
That should be the same thing as if we apply our map T to the polynomial.
And then multiply by the scalar. So let's compute both of these things.
So first will apply T to C times F.
So our map says we're gonna take X. We're gonna multiply C, F of X times itself.
In other words, we get A squared. We do that. You see, we get C squared X and.
Of X squared. However, when we do c times T(f)
So this is X times F of X squared against C X.
F of X squared. And these two things are different in general, right, unless C is zero or one, C squared and C are not going to be the same thing.
So we've shown that T of C,
F of X is not the same thing as C times T(f(x)) for all polynomials F and all scalars C so T does not respect scalar multiplication.
So it cannot be a linear transformation.